# captain-marek

### 2024-07-13 06:22 - programmable-logic-control (PLC)

hi captain marek, last stream someone asked if you guys wanted to implement some kind of logic for the game. you said yes (eventually) and asked for suggestions. initially my idea for it looked something like a spreadsheet. over the last week I've been thinking about it a bit more (cause just a spreadsheet doesn't make actions), so here's my suggestion (this idea can potentially get some serious "feature creep" so be warned):

imagine a panel that can potentially replace the stats bar on the right (important that it stays visible when I click on an entity): from the top of the panel working my way down, there is a heading, followed by an expandable set of columns cells (the wider I expand it, the more cells I get). in each cell I can put text or a formula. a cell can reference another cell (=A3/2) or it can reference an entity and one of its properties (=$1234567890$.Capacity). if I want to reference a machine/cell in my formula, I click on the cell I want to put the value in, then I can click on another cell to get its reference (eg. A3) or I can click on a machine and it'll put in the entity id there (eg $1234567890$), and then have a dropdown/option list of properties that I can reference (capacity - total capacity of this storage, quantity - stored quantity, product_id - stored product id, product_type - stored product type (LOOSE,UNIT,FLUID), etc).
once I've added a few headings and corresponding worksheets, I should be able to see at a glance basic values of my factory (an option to display these values as little graphs like the stats would be cool, but not necessary). these cells and entity references will then be used in the next section (or tab): ACTIONS.
when I click on the [+] button, I'll type in a title ("CITY POOP chlorene") -- which becomes the heading for these actions. there are only two colums in each of these (perhaps with a third enabled checkbox): condition and action. the first one will be the check and perhaps a comment ($1234567890$.Percent < 10 // chlorene storage less then 10%) and then in the other column, the action ($12341234$.Enabled = true // turn on the electrolyzer). -- I'll obviously want to turn the machine back off when the storage is full, so I'll add another row: ($1234567890$.Percent > 90 // chlorene storage greater then 90%) and ($12341234$.Enabled = false // turn off the electrolyzer)
there will probably also need to be a bunch of globals as well: $POPS.Total, $POPS.Available, $POWER.Supply, $POWER.Demand, etc.
and that's it :) I don't recommend making an excel clone, so prolly cell formatting, time series graphs for the cells, cell/entity names (well maybe) aren't necessary; I just want a really simple array of observables where I can put in a custom formula and make actions when conditions are met. anyway, additions to this system could be a cool project for an able-minded programmer in the future though. the whole point of the cells is to generalize/summarise how I look at the values in my factory and allow me to have them available to make actions on.

### 2024-07-13 07:04 - loading screen and customize difficulty

the other thing I noticed in your previous stream is that someone was asking about a thing that was difficult -- and you showed them that they can just customize the difficulty to turn that off. I thought that was a great suggestion, but it's not really very obvious to the player. that could be improved by perhaps a tip on the loading screen (or some interactive way to adjust the difficulty during the loading screen (cause afaik, it doesn't require a reload)).
another thing that I was thinking about for users, is to make the tips a little bit more relevant as well: so, if right before the loading screen, a bunch of vechicles were out of fuel, "Tip #11 - make sure you have enough crude oil, or else your vehicles will run out of fuel and your logistics network grinds to a halt" -- or if I ran out of food right before loading "Tip #12 - make sure you have enough food, or else your pops will starve" -- stuff like that to help the player more easily identify improvements they could make. well, let's say that 4 loads in a row, they run out of food, displaying that tip or another more helpful one ("Tip #13 - farms require a constant source of water to grow properly and not dry out") -- that tip may not actually be that helpful, so maybe show the difficulty setting to adjust from dry to normal or wet, and the farms yield one -- so that they can adjust it right there while loading and try it out (they can always reload)
finally, I'd like to mention that the UI for the customize difficulty is a bit strange with all of the dropdowns. I like that red is hard, grey is normal, and green is easy -- but I want to see at a glance what kind of difficulty I'm looking at without needing to click on the dropdown. so, I might suggest instead a slider bar where one side is green and the other is red -- and as I drag it, the text below/above it changes to the value:
```
|o----|
  Wet
|----o|
  Dry
```
it just feels easier and less resistance to change or look at the other values if I can drag a slider (with color feedback) vs 2 clicks per option using a dropdown

### 2024-07-20 22:34 - extra-difficlty

last week you asked about extra difficulty. I didn't have anything that came to mind immediately, and I said I'd get back to you next week. I decided not to join the stream today cause it's too much mental chaos for me (I get frustrated seeing you totally missing things on your island cause you're talking and stuff, and the stress of watching you play so poorly (I wish I could play for you)) really is quite difficult for me to watch -- so I'll watch the replay later this week and write down my ideas here (I'll dm you the link to this on discord, which I joined like you suggested). here are the ideas that came to me during the week:
1. all buildings have cp upkeep to them (kinda like maintenance but for structural integrity).
	- this will require another maintenance-like building that I have to constantly feed construction parts and other things too (for example desals also need steel). it'll be like an ore sorter where I can assign the product to the port and import the required maintenance parts.
2. belts cost maintenance
	- I have no idea how belts don't require maintenance, but they're in constant need of inspection (in fact, [there's a guy in the #engineering-irl channel that maintains belts](https://discord.com/channels/803508556325584926/959307549864243230/1218352564979105902)). he says that [replacing belts (over repairing them) is the cheapest way to maintain them](https://discord.com/channels/803508556325584926/959307549864243230/1218353879377379348).
3. different sized trees
	- it's really convenient that all trees have exactly 20 wood to them -- and that makes sense from a treee farm perspective, because I can think of 20 wood as the average wood size (cause the harvesters are harvesting about 1-4 trees per month -- so I consider these round numbers to be something like monthly averages). instead, perhaps for the existing trees on the island, these could come in various sizes. I'd probably have ([mentioned in coi-features](/coi-features.md#stuff-that-would-make-the-game-feel-better)) each tree's amount calculated from the game seed and the entity id) to give a variable amount of wood for the intitial trees
4. waste decomposes and caves in
	- I purposefully limit myself to [only dumping rock in the sea](/README.md#neptune-difficulty) because in real-life, waste decomposes into dirt leaving empty spaces behind which eventually caves in, making it extremely unsuitable to build on. I cringe watching JD build his dock out of trash and slag, because that'd fall down in a pretty short period of time.
5. certain materials are unsuitable to build on (like sand)
	- when building a building/machine on an unstable surface (one that slides or moves around a lot), it'll need a foundation build first, which will need extra concrete slabs or cement and rock to be added to the cost of the building to be built on that surface (and maybe a graphic of the ground being leveled and foundation being put in before the building blue boxes start)
6. terrain seed
	- I've been able to excavate certain walls next to buildings and sometimes the RNG is good and no buildings get hurt, and then other times, the terrain deforms in a way which totally wrecks everything. if I excavate a block from an angle, it should fall the same way *every single time* (no exceptions), which not only increases difficulty, but it makes the game become 100% predictable, which means that a replay file can be made of my actions, and if I replay the file, it'll come out with the same result every time. inotherwords, if the angle crashes on my building, I want to reload the save and try a different angle at it instead of praying to RNjesus.

### construction parts rework
