# coi thoughts

### 2024-04-18 21:53 - everything is more drab and grey now

when I first started playing coi (~0.4), the game had a feel to it where things started out drab and grey and then accelerated into more and more color. for exaxple, the first research building looks like a few white tents, the second one is only white and grey, the third one adds blue, and the fourth has even more color; or, for example, the assemblers: first one is like a tin can, then the secone gets a single blue stripe (still maintaining the wood/tin can look), second gets another red stripe, and its wood gets upgraded to blue metal -- then the robotic assemblers kinda go in the reverse direction going back fo grwy and white (+ yellow for T2).
	honestly, I have to say that I've never built a robotic assember because I lose interest in the game (which is another discussion) before I get to them, and have only seen JD with them -- however, my impression remains the same: the game seems to start out with colorful island (greens and flowers and stuff), and the color of the island (its natural beauty) is replaced by a lot of different colored machines, which give it a mechanized feel to it, instead.
now, the different assemblers (still haven't seen the robotic ones even in U2) all seem to feel really grey/yellow and drab. additionally, I liked that there was a transition between colors: white is basic (cp1), then yellow/blue (cp2) is now sorta starting to become mechanized, then red/blue is now automatic (cp3) -- which ia where I usually end the game. after that the colors make another transition: for cp4, the assembler robotic is white, and outputs purple cp4 (a mix of red and blue), which is created from electronics 2, which is the first green component the game has offered up to now. so, it's as if cp4 is kinda like the hight of the game color-wise: it mixed red, green, and purple (which is red and blue) -- but now with the new assembler models (which is yellow and grey instead of red and blue), the mix is now red, yellow and green. red and yellow are both cautionary colors, and green can often be seen in the backdrop of the island (so sorta like a stoplight) -- yet, without any blue anywhere to be seen (cept for the sky when it's clear), the game has a very drab feel to it.
	I've worked on a number of different websites and things, and I can say that light/pastel blue is generally the color of inspiration and ideas (notice the difference between the feel of light blue twitter to black X). darker blue (like facebook) is more serious. yellow is never used, cause it turns people off, and red is used, but usually when it's closer to orange, to denote fire and radical out of the box thinking. fire engine red is not common, because it draws the attention of the eyes, and the eyes don't want to look at things that are boring, so red is usually used for high alert stuff (important text and errors).
colors make a difference, and the more of them there are in a game, the more vibrant the game feels. using the entire rainbow in coi might make it feel too much like a kids game, and too much fun (not industry). however, I've seen a few games use extremely drab environments and default models, because they have skins and cosmetics for sale (which means I could be making a big deal out of a transition into a future cash grab) -- but I'm not talking about only the models, but instead of the story colors tell as the player progesses through the tech tree (though icons and things).

### 2024-04-18 22:53 - dissatisfied with the lategame

one of the things that I really like about coi, is the earlygame. I pretty much exclusively only play up until electronics 2. I've only produced electronics 2 one time (I've played dozens of games), cause that's about the time that I get tired of the game and do something else. because I like the earlygame so much, I've given a lot of thought to both the reason why I tire of it, and also the things that I think can be done to improve it.
1. coi tech does not follow very well natural progression of things. the acceleration of tech that happens in real-life does not compare with how it works in coi. there are so many "conspiracy theories" about tech that has been withheld by massive corporations (which all conspire), and so it's quite possible if corporate sabotage weren't a thing, that tech could have possibly advanced even more rapidly than it has. (tesla was talking about wireless internet and power delivery in 1910s) -- so I would actually imagine that if I were to be going up the tech tree on an island, the acceleration would be uninhibitied because of a lack of competition (take japan for example), and it's actually our *dis-unity* which causes such a slow rise in tech. the amount of transistors produced in the 80s is a few orders of magnitude greater than in the 90s or 2000s.
	- coi models this by having e1, e2, and e3, which I roughly equate to 80-90s, 2000s, and 2010s (respectively).
		- electronics 1 (e1) is what I would consider stuff with copper wires with plastic around them. they're like the "landline" telephones systems with a million copper wires running everwhere. I also consider radios with potentiometers in this section of tech (dials and discreet components). e2, is more like microwaves with LCD displays and buttons: now there are ICs along with the discreet componenets (also non-smartphones, walkmans, nintendos, and gameboys - 90's stuff). finally e3 is something more like computer hardware: (2000-2010+) blackberries, smartphones, tablets, etc.
	- however, the way that coi goes about this isn't very realistic at all: I cannot add 10 landlines and some silicon together to make a blackberry or 10 keyboards and a some silicon to make a touchscreen. sure, some things (notably consumer electronics like microwaves and dishwashers) just put fancy buttons and displays on old-school electronics, but that's not the case for new tech like smartphones and tablets. they are entirely different processes, so a factory that makes keyboards and CRTs is going to need a serious upgrade to make tablets and smartphones. it'd be cool if there were a general way to "print" hardware, such that a factory could make anything from touchscreens and microprocessors, all the way to laundry machines and clothes irons (that'd be super lategame though).
		- therefore, depending on the product, it'll require some of one thing and little of another. for example, for a server, there is the power supply and the case (plus a few other things) which would by e1, but most of it would be e2 and e3. however, consumer electronics for example should be mostly e1 and little bits of e2 -- yet later on when the pops want smart dishwashers and lighting, the amount of e3 will go up.
		- in fact the different quantity of these different products can actually give a gradient to the technology: so, say that tech is researching/increasing consumer electronics, and so not only does this give a gradient increase in unity, but it'll shift the components required (for example: 50% e1 + 40% e2 + 10% e3 -> 40% c1 + 20% e2 + 40% e3)
	- tech does not upgrade in discreet units only one at a time. I would never say, "ok guys, stop all progress on steam turbines, and instead let's completely shift to data centers". it's often the case that one tech leads to another and they're all being studied/researched simultaneously. also, breakthroughs in tech come from people with an afinity for it. it doesn't matter how manh bricklayers you put in a lab, unless someone has an affinity for digital things, they won't discover microprocessors. the other motivating factor in real-life is war. people on an island (isolated from outside influence) don't typically increase tech very rapidly. if even at all (look at the terrible story of when easter island was discovered/ransacked by the dutch, or how slow the *-nesian islands have advanced -- my father went to iryan jaya and they still were in the stone age). tech is discovered by people with an ambition to create, and not only survive. different people have propensity toward different things, and that comes from education.
		- survival mindset means very slow advance in tech (just the things necessary to survive and then that's get into that routine), however a dominant mindset will want to discover things that can be used to gain an advantage on the opponent (us vs them: this first binary). symbolic mindset also defines things, says what is what, and how they're supposed to be used, and things like that -- so they are their own worst enemy to tech (they have something that want to have or don't want them to have, so we must figure out how to destroy them).
		- coi is built around "unity" though and it's kinda a hippie game in that there isn't even money (and the ship battles are laughable, without deaths, blood or and thing getting lost), so probably the game needs to take a different approah to tech (or increase the conflict component), and that is by motivating new pops (children) with narratives about the future (what is proposed to be possible to discover) and they can start to think, dream and start to discover that. there needs to be a promethian inspiration looking forward toward the island life they want to live.
	- tech is also strongly fueled by demand ("necessity is the mother of invention"), and there's no greater motivator for a tech discovery, than a crisis. this aspect alone can make the game more exciting and dramatic: imagine I have a serious diesel shortage, and that causes the tech guys to find an upgrade (say a few iron and some e2 -- which I have) which will increase all trucks fuel efficiency after passing though the vehicle depot (and maybe an upgrade for a cargo ship). the basic formula is: (what do we have access to) + (what do we need) = (specific solution to using/modifying the components we have available). from there an infinite number of upgrades and techs can be discovered (and in the future, shared with others).

### 2024-05-15 00:20 - some buildings don't need maintenance

I find it really weird that some buildings don't need maintenance, like for example the assembly 1 -- which has moving parts, so will definitely need maintenance. additionally, the coal boiler doesn't need maintenance either -- which I suppose, assuming two guys are working there, it seems like they're either conpensating for the maintenance or something. another mind bender is that fuel stations don't need maintenance.. lol, if you've been to any gas station that's obviously not the case cause gas is corrossive. also bathrooms :) also fluid storages have moving parts (but for some reason the fluid pumps itself magically without an electric motor), and unit/loose storages use electricity, so they have electric motors in them, and will also require maintenance, too.
what I would suggest is to have all buildings have some amount of maintenance to them -- even if it's a very tiny amount. I also would like to see an infrastructure maintenance which requires some small fraction of its construction parts cost to maintain itself each month (consider this like things being broken and fixed -- so if I have a building that uses electronics (like a storage has electric motors), some amount of electronics will be used over time to replace those motors, and if I have buildings with concrete/steel infrastucture, same thing, I'm going to need the concrete/steel construction parts to maintain the infrastructure)

### 2024-05-17 20:57 - concrete mixer 3 research placement

concrete mixer 3 is researched in basic computing, yet uses maintenance 1 and no computing resources. I don't know why I need to research gold smelting for a concrete mixer. besides the initial concrete production research, mixer 2 is under construction 3. the only thing necessary for mixer 3 is cp4 -- so I don't see any reason why it can't be moved into the construction 4 research, or perhaps (if it's desirable to have it require lab 4), next to conveyor belts 3.

### 2024-07-21 08:34 - trains

last night I started to write these ideas out on #trains-discussion, but decided not to because I hadn't fully thouht them out yet. so I slept on it, and I'll start with my conclusion: trains need to be omni-directional.
last night I [watched a video](https://discord.com/channels/803508556325584926/1260716327015022764/1264023164586037278) on how complicated it is to get a freight car from one company's rail station to another to quote the OP, "a railway business group made a great animation of a \"worst case\" delivery scenario.". in the video they demonstrated how incredibly difficult it is to transfer a car from one railway to another, how difficult it is to pick up deliver cars to a station, and a few other things. the methods that they used to make the handoffs were extremely inefficient from a "rapid turnaround" perspective. the whole thing reminded me of communication networks, where each car is a packet of data.
imagine for a moment what the internet would be like if it used train-style routing of information. I know it's not possible because sigals travel fast enough that within a 1cm3 space, communication is essentially instant (though under ocean cables are not so instant). the speeds our microprocessors go at allow for nearly instant speeds on the trains (no acceleration or decelleration) and very rapid turnaround times in the routers.
now to look at this topic, let's go back an era or two when uni-directional communication is what is standard: radio broadcasts and telegram communication. telegram style of communication (cause there's a single wire, like one train track) allows only one person to talk at the same time, forcing the other end of the track/wire to be a listener. after that, we advanced to have bi-directional communication (like a 56K modem) where a machine (not a person because it's pretty difficult to talk and listen at the same time [though I must say, under heavy alcohol, the spanish all talk and understand each other at the same time, I don't think they're communicating audibly but visibly (
	I think this style of communication also is what the atlantians where using where they'd present thier concepts visually in the form of symols) and somehow there's a sort of unspoken or visual language that they're using, cause for me, I see it with their animation: the way they throw thier hands about (like dance) is an emotional/conceptual expression, usually to show a person their frustration, anguish, etc (this is what actors mimic, and the animation forms (rendering emotion into motion) seems to be pretty standard amongst cultures (some exceptions), but it seems that the images that they see directly influence how they move, so the pictures are similar/resonant to their motion)
) so a visual (multi-dimensional -- some see 3d, but I believe all imaginations see 4d -- which is why the memory can be played in slow/fast motion [which btw, I must opin that not being able to see the emotion play out in real-time (meaning it's highly exaggerated (more drama added to fill the space) or it's simplified (objectified, defined -- it's how we distance ourselves from things -- by simplifyng them into understandable machines)) and those additions/mutiplications/subtractions/divisions that we make in our mind of the other "thing" is how we simplify things allows for some s severe distortions of our perception of what that emotion actually was like]). those extra dimensions allow for infinite interactions in infinitely many angles, which allows for multi-dimensional perception to allow information to flow -- essentially having a track between the infinite set of items any station could have to the infinitely many other stations.
inotherwords, making the leap of changing how trains work (cause we all want to receive big loads in our stations) from uni-directional with exrtemely complex routing of traffic, but to a new more internet-like way where all things can have bi-directional communication (some restrictions apply) one node to any other. inotherwords, trains need a new design to work in a multi-dimesional way 
(which is what marek has stated the objective is).
