# unrelated-thoughts

### 2024-04-20 15:22 - 3.5D

I've often been fascinated with a hexagonal grid (or more simply an equilateral triangle grid) -- but I've never seen a game do it this way. all implementations that I've seen of dex grid (like Unciv) all map to a 2D plane.
I'd like to propose a new style of thinking: imagine the tri grid has three dimensions to it: x,y,z and they extend out infinitely in each direction (meaning, a plane with 3 dimensions on it). that will be our coordinate system, so every item that's placed on to the tri grid has three components to it, corresponding to it's position on the grid. I can't visualize the math involved to make distance calculations, but I know it'll be different than using your normal sqrt(x^2 + y^2) function (I believe there won't be any roots). those maths are interesting to me and there's actually a guy I watched on youtube I'm reminded of now ([norman wildberger](https://www.youtube.com/@njwildberger)) that probaly knows something about it, so I can ask him -- but anyway I want to continue on with the thought experiment now: once all of the 3d movements are working on a 2d plane, let us now consider a perfect sphere composed of n equilateral triangles. that sphere will now be cut along one of the dimensions (making a straight line), and then the sphere will be flattened out so that it's flat (just like the tri-plane before). now, the seams on the other two edges at the edges of the other two directions (I think they're going to be jagged?) can be thought of like teleports (like in mario when going to the left edge of the screen is just a teleport (wraps) to the other side of the screen -- and also like UV coords in texture unwrapping). now that we have a fully 3d sphere mapped on to a 2d plane (which has 3 dimensions), a lot of interesting things can happen -- I'm not sure exactly what because I can't visualise like that, but it seems to me to be a worthwhile thing to look into, and an interesting format to play a game in.

another interesting thing that I've often had visualising in my head is some kind of 12x grid in coi (though I'm not sure if it's possible): some times I want to go straight on the x/y plane (like when building my factories), but other times (like when running pipes), I want to go diagonally -- but not root-2 diagonal, cause that (1.4) is no longer a unit in length -- so instead what I'd want to do is to go a unit length at a 60 deg angle, instead and then upon arrival to my destination, I have the traditional square grid. I don't know if it's possible to do that, but I think it would make the factories have a much nicer look to them, especially going around corners and stuff. these two ideas may be related, now that I think about it.
the other thing I've often times tried to visualize what it would be like to play coi on a hexagonal (or tri) grid, and to the best of my atility the machines all now have a definite front (or back) to them which is where the machine is facing, and then it seems like it'd be most optimal to have ports on the two opposite planes, which means that all belts/pipes plug in diagonally to the machine, meaning that factories will have these main (lateral or vertical) busses (like the belts behind a row of blast furnaces), and then instead of coming into the machines at 90 deg, they turn in to the machines, and I can imagine say the right side is input and the left is output (or vice-versa) -- and that just kinda looks kinda nice to constantly be taking things off and returning things back to the bus -- way less jarring than the 90 deg turns -- but definitely a way different way of thinking (more circular).
