# Ministry of Preparation (MOP) - Captain's Log

### 2024-06-03 09:53 - the polution problem

I decided to start working on this one again (I took a few month break), but I want to see how I do by adding in the extra difficulty of writing about what I'm doing and *some* (cause it's impossible to express all) of my thoughts. it's been quite a bit, so I'm just gonna kinda go from memory. actually, I have a TODO list I left for myself... I remember I was trying to make the pivot into fertilizer, at the same time as making the water pipes next to the farms better and also moving the bakery.

- add another limestone digger (or make bigger limestone storage and have the exc work part-time)
- rearrange slag booster belt (don't remember what was wrong about it)
- priority diesel generators (to ensure power doesn't fail)
- build 2 chem plants and preferrably 2-3 mixers (one for slag and other for fertilizer)
- set rubber to use sufur
- diesel pipe on top in front - fertilizer in back
- turn off import/export for sulfur/slabs bucket
- run diesel and fertilizer/water pipe in front of the shipyard.

in addition to those things, I remember that I'm thinking my best route is to try and get a few extra tech labs (up to 6), and just try to get to wastewater treatment and exhaust scrubbing. air pollution is the next biggest threat. I have enough crude for 200-300y. it seems like food is also gonna be OK as well, because with fertilizer I'll just have so much more food that I can afford the extra workers.
I also think that I want to research glass smelting and get a quartz contract before I upgrade to big trucks. I'll probably keep the setup that I have now for a while because I can easily expand it with only 2x adv diesel -- though that'll likely get expanded because I have to convert all my power over to diesel, because all of that coal has to be for smelting until I get CO2 -> graphite (at which time I'll still likely run diesel until I can get to hydrogen).
	there's this thing that I sorta have against using uranium for some reason. the base that I see in the future has lots of pumps and dumps to turn LPS into clean water -- then combine that with hydrogen to get power -- and more clean water. also, it seems that I won't be able to afford even the slighest amount of radiation because of how much it (and other types of pollution) affects health. it's got to be hydrogen all of the way.

### 2024-06-03 13:31 - start over lol
- upgrade sw water pipe + put balancer
- run diesel and fertilizer/water pipe in front of the shipyard.
- fixup farm pipes
- build 2 chem plants and preferrably 2-3 mixers (one for slag and other for fertilizer)
- move bakery

### 2024-06-04 10:51 - start over one more time (0159-02-17)

so, playing coi while stoned is a most difficult task. I realise I need to just start over. so I'm starting over from 0159-02-17 -- we'll see how it goes. gonna try and remember some of the todo items. also, btw, it's a LOT easier to type qwerty, as well... that took me so long to type yesterday...

### 2024-06-05 11:18 - this time for reals (0160-06-02)

- ~~coal belt over to desals (save trucks driving distance, and I can use the space in front of desals for something else)~~
- ~~turn on gw pumps to full and use that water preferentially to the desal (save coal)~~
- ~~delete two of the diesel generators and put in a bucket for light oil (so I know when to turn on and off the hp turbines to expend the excess steam)~~
- run water pipes down the middle so that they aren't going on top of copper mountain
- ~~put in sulfur bucket and mixer to make acid up top~~
- build the other two science labs and just coast for a while, while research is getting done

this is kinda a pivotal moment, because on one side, I want to boost science and coast for a while, but I don't think that I can, actually. I'm probably going to have to come back and do the techs that I missed a little bit later (it only costs a little steel and some wood), because I really need: wastewater treatment, exhaust scrubbing, and electrolysis (to split the excess amonia). we'll see. I'll try both probably

### 2024-06-06 15:42 - I think I got this (0166-04-04)

I really feel good about my progress yesterday (it really helps not being stoned). I managed to get the 6th farm built, and get fertilizer into them. I also got to stable trucks for a bit, but it went away pretty quickly. though it says "extremely busy", stuff is getting delivered pretty fast even with P14 constructions. it seems that the "extremely busy" is counting all of the dump jobs of rock in the shipyard and ore sorters -- which is quite a few: I had 5.7k rock 10ya, and now only 2.1k.
- research belts mk2 (so that I can have more than 2.5 AS3 creating CP1 at a time, reducing my slag dumping, and also more slabs for paving)
- ~~add limestone, iron, and coal diggers~~
- get T3 going, and research:
	- wastewater treatment (water pollution is -9) 
	- exhaust filtration (air pollution is -13)
	- housing 3 (need more pops for more stuff; food isn't an issue anymore)
- run water pipes down the middle so that they aren't going on top of copper mountain, and build an ore sorter for copper and iron (so trucks don't have to drive so far)
- ~~move some of the sw storages over to heavy oil~~
- ~~move the bakery (to put in 2 more housing modules)~~

#### 2024-06-06 23:19 - got some of it done

I didn't make it to T3 at all, and it seems that I'll probably just complete all of the research before moving to T3, because I need to kill a bunch of pirates. I still haven't found the next oil rig yet, and I think I may cheat to find it by remembering where it is and then reloading the game. so far I've found a sulfur mine and a coal mine... lol. that will only help me out a little bit though, because when I closed the game just now (0180-06-23), I had enough crude, and 850 pops, so everything is pretty good, just I was making stupid mistakes like forgetting to put the limestone digger back on after the bucket emptied... so, time to sleep :)

### 2024-06-14 23:21 - going t3 (0177-07-12)

the other night I played a testing run to see if I could get to t3, to kinda see what the problems would be. turns out it was really easy actually. not only did I get that done, I also was able to put the two new ore sorters in and get the gw pipes moved off of copper as well. after that, I fiddled around with surfaces and decals and stuff while everything went into a death-spiral. anyway, tonight I plan to accomplish the same thing, but with even less effort. I also experimented with the new t3 labs, and they don't research the t2 researches very much faster at all (I'd say about 10-20% faster) and require twice as much lab equipment to do it, so I'll probably just coast for a bit and get all the researches I know I'll need in the next little bit. the next major hurdle seems to be population, which is dramatically increased pollution -- which is a case for perhaps going t3 early and just eating the extra parts cost for research -- though I dunno yet and haven't decided if that's what I want to do (my gut says that I should go as t3 asap though). after that, the next hurdle is actually going to be feeding everyone. to speed the game up when I was playing (more unity to build things), I turned on plenty of food -- but it became clear that 120% fertilizer is prolly too high. I'm gonna reduce it to 100% so I'm in line with my diesel usage. I also filled enough for another two farms, but I can't afford the water until thermal desal is done and I have exhaust filtration producing LPS.
I also decided that I won't be upgrading to yellow trucks until I get glass making and hydrogen going cause I found that with 95 blue trucks, I'm actually stable and dumping tons of rock into the ocean as well. speaking of which, I'm going to need to expand the dock area considerably because I'm going to need to run all of the exhaust down the hill to the shore where many exhaust filtrations and desals are setup to produce a lot of water for the farms and town. after that, I'm really going to be needing to reduce coal usage by a lot, so stage 3 refinery and gas kiln I think are necessary after that. I may have to do chicken farm for the extra health bonus (and I have tons of wheat and soon tons of water). we'll see.

### 2024-06-16 21:06 - sand and fuel gas (0194-08-06)

I successfully made it to t3 pretty effortlessly, but I'm kinda short on pops (they slowly die off every flu season), so I'm constantly short on workers. to get around this, I'm kinda cheating: I pause and unpause the oil import ship every time it arrives to save 22 workers (it just needs the workers to leave and can apparently drive without crew) -- and I have to pause a lab to build more lab equipment from time to time as well -- however, I believe that as soon as I have wastewater treatment (I'm 1.5 researches to go) and get exhaust scrubbing done, then health will go up significantly. so, tonight's tasks are to get both of those done, then put in stage 3 refinery modules and use FG for steam instead of light oil. I don't know if I'll be able to make it all the way tonight, but I want to have hydrogen stuff all researched so once I get a stable source of sand (and glass making built), I want to convert directly to hydrogen vehicles (it's way more efficient per crude imported and also significantly less vehicle pollution, allowing me to upgrade to yellow trucks and excavators finally). during that process I want to build a pretty large VP2 setup on the coast and use it to import quartz (for glass), crude (for hydrogen), and iron (for VP2), which then only needs a little bit of copper for the electronics bits -- I now have the ability to fully upgrade the fleet and do mass excavation to take down the whole island I'm on. that's pretty far ahead though... anyway, tonight:
- ~city poop (more water, less coal)~
- exhaust scrubbing (for now, I'll just vent the steam)
- use cement for coal import and (optional) see if I can't burn FG instead of coal to make cement (I'm really trying to reduce coal usage).

### 2024-06-18 23:36 - exhaust scrubbing & refining (0206-04-21)

the poop problem wasn't that big of a deal -- and it was only a slight reduction in coal usage. however, I'm faced with a challenge of where to put in the scrubbers. my instinct says to put them in on the dock and pipe all of the exhaust down the hill, but obviously 180 exhaust is more to pipe down the mountain than 72 seawater is to go up -- however that gives me easy access to acid and water up top (there's only one gw pump so only about 150 water up there max atm which is enough for concrete, acid and (soon) bricks -- for right now) -- and that system can easily be supplemented with water running up the hill. trucking some sulfur up there isn't really a problem (way less than the amount of coal I'm sending up the hill), and also the dock is going to (hopefully soon) have a bunch of smelters on it doing massive vp2 imports. as I expand that, I'm going to move the entire cp production down to the dock so I don't have to keep sending coal up the hill. so, better to go down with the resources than up -- however, that isn't going to happen anytime soon -- so, as soon as the ramp is built, I have to expand the dock in the front, cause I'm good enough on food for now -- and with the decrease in pollution I can actually skip the +8 health bonus and feed them only bread for a bit (until I get chicken farms). tonight's tasks will be:
- run more pipes down the side of the mountain, slide the bakery over to fit in big bridges
- get exhaust pipes running all the way down to the dock (and vent it there until scrubbers are built)
- put in a bunch of exhaust scrubbers on the dock (start with the boilers and the diesel generators)
- add refinery stage 3 and tank the naptha until cracking research is done (fg outputs CO2 which is less pollution that light oil)
- desal the scrubber's steam into water

### 2024-06-22 03:34 - coal and exhaust scrubbing (0216-08-04)

turns out the refinery upgrades were the thing that took my time up. I also [built a spreadsheet](/spreadsheets/refineries.ods) to calculate the requirements for my needs. the way that I'm going to do it is (in addition to the scrubbing, I'm going to convert the majority of diesel into naptha >> fuel gas >> hydrogen), and use desal units and hydrogen boilers to provide water and power to the town and stuff (each setup uses 148 pops, generates 7MW, ~10NH3 for fertilizer, and ~96 water) -- meaning each module can run farms for prolly another 2k pops (haven't done the maths yet). I'm going big (like my goal is 50k+ pops) and I'm just gonna run on massive amounts of oil for gold contracts (probably -- or at least until that giant gold mountain is gone), and use that massive oil import to just go full hydrogen setup. I think that's realstically the only way I'll be able to do something with such a difficult pollution. I may try going nuclear in the future, but for now (while I'm doing so much smelting), I want to have a power source that's zero pollution (or nearly zero until I get CO2 to graphite research).
in addition to creating the spreadsheet, I managed to triple my electronics output -- and where the existing electronic smelters are, I now have space to expand concrete if I need to (to keep up with the slag output, I may want to). I also managed to dramatically increase cp2 production which is good cause I need a lot of those.
tonight's tasks are going to be:
- cement for coal contract
- actually getting exhaust scrubbing going.

### 2024-06-22 22:10 - coal and exhaust scrubbing (0216-08-04)

do over. I was prett tired last night, so I didn't really make much progress at all. the coal issue is starting to loom large, so I need to get the cement for coal contract started -- and of course the exhaust scrubbing will make my water problems disappear. after that's done, I really need to find the quartz for vp2 import contract and start working that one out (I haven't even found a quartz mine yet). not sure how I'm gonna work that one out yet, cause until I can get more pops, I may need to fill in the coal mine temporarily for more town space and get coal from contracts. the other thing I'm strongly considering is converting my farms to do only wheat and for the second category, go with chickens (cause I'll have plenty of water and lots of extra wheat (which is the best conversion to animal feed)).

#### 2024-06-23 03:50 - not so easy as I thought

the serious issue of not having enough pops is really killing me. the only way that I can think of doing it, is to build the last two farms, and move everything over quite a few spaces. that'll give me room to build 8 more housing modules -- which I'll probably need a few more farms to do that (or suffer low health and feed them only bread until I can add chickens). I didn't try the chicken strat, but if I'm moving all of those things over to make way for houses, there's space next to the mountain to build chickens farms -- which need a lot of water, but I think that'll come through just fine once I get exhaust scrubbing (3x72 water output).

### 2024-06-23 17:55 - move farms over by one and do heavy oil cracking (0220-04-02)

I decided that my best bet is to delete the two farms next to the town (giving space for 8 more housing modules (1040 more pops)). in order to feed them I'm just gonna feed them bread for now (until I have enough water for chickens). then, the whole space where the farms used to be will become an only-truck-zone (OTZ), which will allow me to run a bunch of exhaust pipes at hight 2 all along the town, and leave only in front of the shipyard able to pass cause I'll still need to get sand from the beach over there (and also clean up the trash/slag). then, meanwhilst trying to setup the cement for coal contract (which will need a lot of pops (120+ at my current rate of spending coal)), I've got to get heavy oil cracking and the water system converted from FG over to hydrogen (more efficient and less pollution).

### 2024-06-24 01:01 - dover no wood (0208-10-11)

I really need to increase my forestry by a lot, it turns out. I ran into a situation where I'm completely without trees in 0233, which means I need a whole lot of them planted ~20y before (hence why I'm going back to 0208). the plan to convert them over to only bread was pretty successful (apart from a few dieoffs during flu season) and really gave me a lot of extra capacity on the farms -- so I'll do that. I'm also going to make the transition to another copper build much sooner as well, as that also seems to be quite successful. also the coal import contract really seemed to work pretty well. here's the list of things to do (prolly not tonight, but generally):
- go up to 5 tree planters and expand forestry
- convert pops over to only bread (and the rest saplings)
- move copper smelting and electronics over to the side there
- move rubber upstairs
- try to get coal import contract a bit sooner
- once again try and get scrubbing to work
- expand out farms to the right with rock dumping instead of working on the front pier

### 2024-06-27 03:11 - try again to get wood (0214-08-22)

the other night I really ran into a problem with my wood. even though the game was in a pretty good state, and I'm sure I could use that branch to actually win, I was literally waiting for wood to grow, and it would take some 10-15y before I was back to full production again; so, I abandoned the branch and went back to 0208 to try again. I bought more planters and got my farms producing more saplings, so I feel a little bit better about making it this time. I'm 20y away from the time I ran out of wood last time (0234), and I have a few more trees planted this time, and my 5th tree planter is just now coming out. however, because I've had to race to get to higher tree production, I've been using a lot more diesel than before, which is kinda a problem. I have ~300 cp2 from canceling the captain's office upgrade, and I'm likely going to spend it on power generators (either that or farms and another house module), and when desal research gets done (prolly 4-7mo from now), I'll add on the desal to get enough water for the farms. I already redirected the gw reserve to go to the farms for the extra water requirements (something I didn't need to do on the abandoned branch), so we'll see how that goes (the reserve is already empty, so it's not likely to help much). I really think I need to build the naptha cracking and the generators so oil doesn't backup, then just wait for desal before I do the farms. though I could build another 2 basic distillers (+36x2) to add those two extra farms (-30x2) and that would ensure I have enough food for the extra workers and also more saplings. one thing I also noticed (right before I ended last time, so I could go back again and redo it another time) is that I'd been exporting and burning wood chips in the boiler -- which is an enormous waste of wood. I'm gonna try both strats, and if neither of them work, I'll have to go back and turn that off sooner (quick maths: 4 farms are producing 36 saplings every 1.5 years (8 trees planted per month -- rather, each farm produces ~40 wood per month), yet I'm only consuming ~64 per year (160 wood is less than 64 so I *should* be fine, hopefully)). we'll see.

### 2024-06-30 01:36 - try again (02-08-0218)

I got really stoned a few days ago (friday?) and the consequence is that I can't remember *anything* at all of what I was doing. I'm gonna reread the above clogs to see what I was on about, but it's sorta a new experience (I took a lot of weed, and didn't eat for quite a long time (20h+) during the trip so it was pretty intense). I'm gonna give it my best shot -- but...
one of the things that I noticed while I was stoned is that I'm farely dishonest writing in these clogs because I don't play the game at all like I make it sound. I play the game *conceptually*, so all of these ideas are symbolised (ie, translated into english) a system of concepts that give me reminders while I'm playing the game in the form of a feeling to do certain things, so that my play resonates with the concept that I have in my mind of how the game should go. that's why when I'm really tired or on a lot of drugs, my play style really suffers cause I can't feel the conceptual/feeling reminders. I do often times create the concept symbolically (as in I want to up tree planting so I don't run out of wood), but it's often when I create thec concept symbolically, then I tend to overcompensate and go beyond what I'm trying to accomplish.
case in point, in the last playthrough I bought a lot more tree planters (6), so I'm gonna have plenty of wood (perhaps a small slump around ~0132, but it should be pretty fine after that), but scaling the farms to be able to keep up with the extra saplings required more basic distillers running, so I ran out of coal a lot faster. I also spent more diesel much faster too because I didn't get the water and power setup going, because each turbine I run removes 4MW of load off of the diesel generators AND produces 72 water, so I was neither lacking on either diesel or water in the aborted playthrough (aborted 7) -- yet I was in this one. it seems that my instinct to just play it slow and keep things going well was the right idea -- so I'm gonna slow down a bit and just build things as I get the parts, staying in a mostly stable state.

### 2024-07-01 01:24 - went really well (0218-08-18)

after a number of tight spots (like gettting naptha cracked), the game went really well from there on out. I played out the game for quite a while after that (till ~0223) and felt really good about the trajetory the game has. it's pretty obvious that I need to start cracking heavy oil and get hydrogen production up (but I wasn't gonna do that yesterday) -- so an oil rearrangement is in order for today, along with a coal contract (because I nearly reached the bottom of the coal mine yesterday) and exhaust scrubbing for even more water (I'm just gonna vent excess lps when water backs up). after I've got lots of water, I want to experiment with putting chicken farms in, and see how viable that is (+8 health is a HUGE BONUS -- though, just cleaning up the exhaust will also be huge)
- crack heavy oil and FG into hydrogen
- convert cargo ship over to hydrogen
- exhaust scrubbing
- cement for coal contract

#### 2024-07-01 01:43 - going back further actually (0214-12-20)

I noticed a huge booboo where around 0215-04-03, I loaded the crew on the ship, and I vaguely remember taking out some pirates, but in the process of reloading, I must have forgot to send the ship out again (this is a perfect case where [pragtical-coi](/pragtical-coi.md) would come in handy). so with an extra 35 workers, all the stuff I did yesterday would be much easier (for example I don't need to pause the cargo ship every time he leaves to save 22 workers, when I have 35 sitting in the ship doing nothing (lol)). so I'm just gonna go way back and redo it. it'll be *a lot* easier this time... lol
turns out the last time I had that going was "naptha cracking 4" (0215-02-05), which is quite a ways back. the previous save to that one is "naptha cracking 3" (0214-12-20) -- a very long time ago -- so I'm actually contemplating going back further -- like say back to when I was doing city poop -- and move that forward a bit, because it'd be really nice to have a 2-3 tile gap between the poop facility and the town (to run the exhaust pipes through). it also allows me the opportunity to run rubber creation up to the top much earlier too. not sure yet what I'll do. gonna try this one for a bit.

### 2024-07-01 02:51 - city poop once again (0200-06-12)

looking at it, I feel pretty good about going all the way back to "city poop 10" (0200-06-12) and starting from there. I rearranged the pipes so that 9 pipes/belts can make it through the front of the town now, which means that I'm gonna try and get scrubbing up much faster this time. here's the general overview
- after poop isn't being dumped into the sea anymore, convert the pops over to bread and water diet (no more veg means faster planting of saplings and more forestry)
- move the bakery earlier
- get desal research next and scrub exhaust for farm water
- move rubber up top and expand copper faster

### 2024-07-03 04:31 - got a lot done... but (0200-06-01)

man, I must still kinda be recovering from that mega weed excursion because I'm still having trouble remembering where I'm at. I loaded it up tonight and after looking at it, I remember, but I guess I decided to go pretty far back, cause I'm still working on city poop. it's basically there, and I got rubber moved, and the bakery is being built now. desal research isn't even started yet (it was still going on scrubbing). also it appears that I forgot to build the poop pipe while I was "fixing" my pipes, so it's been backed up for a while now. looks like the problem started when I forgot to build the pipe after putting in the plumbing in (0200-06-01) geez. turns out the trucks were manually trucking over the water to the dump on the other side (no wonder it was "extremely busy"). fortunately(?) poop backing up doesn't really have much of a punishment in the game (-5 health in water section) so I didn't even really notice my mistake. anyway, I gatta say that's pretty embarrassing. I'm going to have to go back to fix it. so start again, I guess...
btw starting over like this is good practise for me to get better at getting things right the first time. I'm getting better at noticing these kinds of mistakes and not making them. I noticed too that one thing I don't do, which JD does all the time is to go and double check that everything is working right. I don't really know what I do (I guess I just assume it works), but I'll try and start integrating that into my play style a little more. we'll see how it works out.

### 2024-07-07 09:11 - played a bunch last night (0213-06-15)

yesterday afternoon and evening, I played pretty stoned (started around (0204-03-17)), and the weird thing is it worked out OK. I don't know what exactly the difference is but I didn't eat anything except lots of cherries from the tree hanging over on our property. they're quite sour, so lots of vitamin c. anyway, it worked out really well, and I managed to get to 0213 when I got adv diesel up and going. I also changed location of where I want to put the exhaust filtration and desal -- so I pipe the steam down to next to the shipyard where I'm running desal units. seems to work OK, so if all I'm doing is piping steam down the mountain, that's the best. I think I'm on to something here.
(10:31) I decided I want to try this weed thing again. I'm gonna start a little bit further back (like around where I build the adv refinery and before building the scrubbers) and do all of that better. to do the scrubbing up top, I only need a little bit of water (which I think I have from the GW pumps). everything else will be roughly the same.

### 2024-07-13 07-13 16:42 - try again (0206-02-02)

too much weed. I played a lot and learned a lot, but I don't really remember much of it. I managed to get exhaust scrubbing and some desal going pretty well (144 water for farms). I saved the blueprints, and this time I'm going to try and get it all done in less time. I think it's actually quite easy to do, and shouldn't really be a problem at all. after that, I've got to save up for the adv refinery upgrades (420 cp3) and get those going. I'm not sure if I'll need pipes 3 before or after naptha upgreades turboing out the filtration. we'll see.

#### 2024-07-14 15:36 - went really well

this run yesterday went extremely well. I got all the way up to building water and power (about ~14y earlier than last run) -- but I was right on the edge of the diesel limit (I actually had to pause an exc cause it was that close). also coal is starting to run low -- however, I don't think that's a problem because I can get a 2x 30y loan for 3k coal -- which is more than plenty, because I only need 2-3k cp2 to get the cement for coal contract going, which will make repaying that pretty easy and that's enough coal to easily make 5k+ cp2. so it feels pretty good. I don't think wood will be the issue this time, as it seems with 4 planters there are more than enough trees (I'll prolly get a 5th one soon as I add the 6th farm).
anyway, I decided that I'm gonna go to the weed store and buy some stuff. I'll prolly smoke a little for the walk home (it's about 1.5-2h walk each way) and then I'm gonna quit until next sunday. I'll be stoned when I get back, so don't expect too much productivity (I'll prolly try and write out a bunch of thoughts that have appeared to me since marek's stream yesterday). anyway, these sorts of things where I purposefully put myself into a chaotic state are part of my regimen of contant expansion. we'll see how it goes. I was thinking about it too, and it seems that I'll likely (if I try for it) be able to beat the game before 0500. production is high enough that I can easily (even with the wood requirements) have 3x ASM3s producing CP2/CP3 -- then just fill enough dock space for multiple hydrogen refineries and quartz imports to upgrade to hydrogen trucks. we'll see :)

### 2024-07-15 12:07 - start back (0216-11-05)

I ran into a weird thing where for some reason concrete just wasn't getting imported to the box. it had been doing it just fine all the way until I upgraded from 2 to 4 kilns. I'm not exactly sure why that is, but not having slabs totally grinds production to a halt. so I'm going back to a time before that was a problem. I might go back further because now that I think about it, I may have too much naptha and either need to build a tank (like I did previously) or get the water and power system going quicker.

### 2024-07-16 19:13 - no wood again (0217-12-15)

I thought I had enough wood, and it's pretty close (I was getting a few trees every once in a while (probably at the rate of one of the tree planter going)) but I still ran out of wood. last time I think I ran out of wood in 0234 (if I remember right), but this time I ran out 0226 (8 years earlier!!). what happened is I actually scaled so fast (it was easy just to copy and improve the bp from the last run cause all the design phase is done) that my extra production capabilities (this time I have up to 3 asm3s running to make cp2) are using the wood faster then I can produce it.
I'm not actually sure what to do here because when I restarted last time I dilly-dallied a little bit (maybe a 1y or so) before getting adding the planter, but honestly not that much. my target was to have 3 planters at full speed by 0214 -- and (checking now...) it looks like I've got 4 going at full speed at 0213 -- which would be perfect if I were to run out of wood at 0233...
(20:05) OK, so I thought about it, and I think what I'm going to do is (because I don't really remember much because of the weed) to go back a few years (maybe quite a few actually because looking at it now, it appears I've made a few mistakes), and see if I can lower production so that I don't run out. either way in the current version of the game (0.6.4d), forestry is a bit frustrating and tree planters make a whole lot more trips than they need to (every time they can't get to a designation, they return to the tower), so I'm not exactly sure how feasible it is in the current version to add more planters. I'll give it a shot again from 0217 and see if I can do better. the other option is to use a loan actually -- but I'd like to avoid that if possible. let's try

### 2024-07-19 00:04 - went well (0223-03-27)

I tried again and this time went a little slower, focusing on the transition to hydrogen instead of moving copper and upping my production. I made it to 0223 and there was still some wood on the hill. I redid/expanded forestry for about the 5th time in the last few weeks (too bad there's no blueprints for saving mining/forestry designations), and I've sorta gotten to the point where when the planter can't find his way, I move him on to the next tower (takes way too long to debug where the problematic designations are).
anyway, tonight (I'm starting a bit late so it'll be a short one) I'm planning on getting a bunch of cracking units deployed, 2-4 more farms (depending on how quick they can dump) and the heavy oil cracked into naptha -> hydrogen (actually, that's the later setup which costs more pops. I'm going to experiment cracking it into diesel at first so I can have more excs building the front dock), and my cargo ships running on hydrogen. it doesn't look like I can get any pickups or small excavators running on hydrogen, so those will have to wait until I expand the front dock to get quartz/sand import going (that little beach on the side just isn't enough sand to make glass -- and I'll need a second refinery for that kind of hydrogen consumption (they consume ~20% more than diesel and I'm close to the limit already on diesel)).
1. crack heavy oil
2. 2-4 more farms
3. cement for coal contract
4. try to scrub everything (the health boost is really important)

### 2024-10-12 22:20 - tried again (0224-07-07)

well, I tried out playing coi again -- kinda just to see if I can do it. since last time, I've had a lot of life changes and I'm in the living room of my mom's apartment and on some prescription meds. the setting is a lot more difficult for me to concentrate in (or seemingly so), however the game seemed unusually easy. I sat down played 30m to reorient myself to that save, then started over -- played about 2-3h, then started over again cause I could do the things way better ([see TODO](<Ministry of Preparation TODO.md#convert-to-hydrogen-8>)), so I started over and everything went really easy.
I traded cp3 for glass (6 times) to buy glass for a house 3. I think it's a good strat because I'm really strapped for pops, and not a lot of space. I'm gonna need more food to add more houses though, but water seems pretty good so far (3 desals is enough for the city so far. 4 will be better). speaking of which, I'm starting to run everything on hydrogen now, and it's a lot better. I'm starting to convert my h-oil into H, and so-far so good. I also managed (in the abandoned attempt) to get the cargo ship running my hydrogen too -- but the benefit isn't so good. I'm gonna try again though before switching it back to diesel or leave it how it is.
anyway, it seems that now is time to get coal contracts so I can stop digging coal and fill in the hole (another way to get more housing space). I'm gonna try that strat now, then off to bed. it's kinda fun playing coi again, wasting time this way instead of wandering around doing drugs on the streets with friends. [brb - 22:39] oh yeah, I'm gonna try to upload the save files as well.

### 2024-10-13 16:46 - starting back again (0224-07-11)

I had a lot of success this morning playing. I played at 10x speed for a while taking it really slow (at a fast speed), and managed to get really far. unfortunately, I forgot to save it before I reloaded as a reference. the house 3 strat works really well, and there's more than enough bread to feed everyone. converting over to hydrogen is really difficult, and the part that's the hardest is trying to get the fg boiler convrrted over to H; because of the way that the pipes are setup, I have to convert the cargo ship at the same time -- then the other thing is, at the same time, I need more pops for all of the reformation going on -- and cause not enough diesel is being used, I have to crack diesel into naptha -> FG -> H. so, I saved a blueprint of that, and I'm going to try again. another strat that worked well is adding 10 more pickups too (makes me need to empty the ore sorters almost never -- which is good cause it's kinda cheating). gonna try again...

### 2024-10-14 21:07 - ugh (0227-04-22)

so I started over again in the same spot as yesterday (0224-07-11), and I checked my TODO to make sure I have it all. there's one item in there called, "fix upper copper exhaust pipe" -- which for whatever reason I overlooked. the copper smelters up top have not been running since I installed the exhaust scrubbing -- which is quite a while ago at this point (50y+). there's no way I'm going all the way back for that. I only noticed it when I decomissioned the old copper smeleter too -- so that one pair of smelters has been carrying me this entire time. having the third one running wouldn't make anything much easier so it's not really worth it to go back -- cept today I did the hydrogen transition pretty well, only to find out I don't have any e1 because I never reversed the pipe. I'm thinking about going all the way back, but I'm just going to try and go a little ways back because as I said, it's not a huge game-changing mistake.

in other news, I figured out why I have such different performance from time to time. when I was playing on 10x speed, that *morning* (seems I play better in the morning here) I was alone and mom was resting/asleep -- which makes the difference, because of the drugs I'm on right now (abilify + adderall), I'm quite sensitive to other people's energy, and the way mom feels affects me a lot. also, this game is very much an alone or playing with someone else that's also interested in the game, because distractions are a total killer -- and this computer is in the main walkway in front of the kitchen -- so anytime mom leaves any room, she passes by me. I'm constantly interrupted in my thoughts here, whereas when I played in the basement, obviously that was much easier. I really play best when I'm playing while others aren't around, because one day mom left for a bit and again, I really played well, and it felt like the 1h passed in like 10m or something (very quickly). it's really nice when I have my own train of thought. I tried putting music on, and that helps a lot to not hear the TV, but it doesn't stop her walking past me every few minutes. I think I need to take a break for a bit... lol, but I'm totally going to try it with this e1 problem fixed. I played so well today despite the situation... anyway, off to try again :) I just really can't wait unitil I stabilise and am churning out gold for crude oil. I'm gonna have so many refineries.

### 2024-10-20 19:37 - superficially stuck (0260-01-11)

I'm at a point where the walls are closing in a bit and I can't continue my insanely rapid expansion. I feel like it's sorta like the time when I didn't have enough wood, and had to restart (I don't know how many times) to get 4 tree planters before some year in order to make it. this situation is similar, cept it has to do with water. adding more pops is easy for food (cept I may have to turn off plenty of food to make it work), but for water, their consumption (not talking about the extra 5% for house 3) is what breaks me, because then I get a lot less unity (turns out having running water makes them happy, lol). the other difficulty is I can't really turn on any new machines because I'm at about the limit of healh. I have health boost going full time, and I'm between 6-10 health when they're healthy, which is pretty much all of the time (that obviously changes (as soon as I get corn seeds?)/soon) -- so I'm enjoying healthy pops for now.
so, what it looks like is I have a few possible routes:
1. save up CPU (construction parts + unity) while doing a lot of digging to get a big pier and then do a big transition (accelerate pop growth while transitioning) into a big refinery with a lot of hydrogen and water.
2. do one of those coal to 4xHPS desal things using the coal contract I've got going. I'll have to save up some unity for that one though because I can build the setup on the pier, but I'll need 50 extra pops for the coal contract and desal units. (there's no way I can do it on hydrogen). also, unfortunately I put my kilns right on the coastline, so I'll need to go back a bit (only a few decades) and redo the contract's kilns setup a little.
3. finally, this option is a bit far-fetched, but downstairs I produce about ~200 exhaust between the coal boiler, diesel turbines, and kilns -- which can be scrubbed and turned into 72 water. that may be actually an option for the future, but at the moment, piping the exhaust over to where the water and power desal units are is a bit of a task, but it could work I suppose.
I'm gonna give #2 and #3 a go now. I personally think that 2 is the most viable, but the cleaner air is really tempting because I'd really like the extra health. we'll see.
[20:13] also, I'll try and get the saves uploaded soon. unfortunately they're about 3.6GB, and I don't know if github will balk at that size.
[20:17] also, I took some great pictures of some trains out where I live (pueblo, co) and I kinda want to upload those pictures too... maybe I'll send an email to github support. I have an option of uploading the files to a public location, then building a release script (to put it in releases) which downloads the saves from there and puts them into the release so that it doesn't count as size of the repository (and neither needs to be downloaded when someone checks out the repository). I'll try to see what they say...
[23:20] option #3 turned out to be a lot easier than I thought -- however it doesn't do much. I went from air pollution of -14 to -12, and the city went from 79/116 to 96/118 -- which is good, but not great. it only costs about 10 workers too, so it's a win. I've still got to try out #2 though (probably on the same save as #3) and see how that goes. 78x4 water for one coal boiler (which will be scrubbed) is pretty good. gonna try it now.
[00:01] in other news, I tried the incinerator, scrubbing all its exhaust and it lowered air pollution from -13 to -11 -- sorta good, but it needs 18 pops and 320 CP3, lol -- so I'll wait on that one. looks like #2 is the way to go. gonna try it tomorrow. good night

### 2024-10-21 09:24 - now what? (0274-04-14)

turns out that the dishwasher was so loud that I couldn't sleep (I sleep in front of the kitchen), and along with that I realised I could just put a desal unit right into the spot where the basic desals used to be -- so I got up and did that. there was only space for two of them, but it worked out so well that I even had extra water for the farms (city water tank is full at L22 consumption). so, I decided to also put in thm incinerator -- and again that worked out really well (down to air pollution of -13). so now I have slight breathing room to get more stuff done. I forgot to mention that between 0227 and 0260 I mainly coasted (there wasn't much to write about) doing research and exploring with the ship (still don't know what to name him), and in that time the pier has expanded, but still not enough for another cargo dock yet (the one that's placed alread is probably going to also import crude). I think my goals are going to be to find a way to get another 100 pops or so (ie, fill another house3) while digging out the pier some more. the other possibilitity is to build another ramp and start belting/piping things up top.
ideallly, I want to get production moved down to the pier soon. realistically though, I'll probably need to repair the quartz mine and do contracts for VP2 to iron and crude. then with iron down there, I can start thinking about moving production down. it's all too far into the future though -- and so a ramp may be a lot easier to start with (I can belt iron, copper, and limestone down as I keep expanding the pier).

### 2024-10-21 20:51 - I'm trying to go too fast

if I could summarise this run in a sentence, it'd be, "I keep trying to go too fast". I probably need to take a break from the game for a bit because I thought that I had run into another dead-end cause I didn't have enough food -- but plenty of food was on and I'm making ~2.6U a month. turn it off and just coast for a while, while I'm digging out the pier, and I've got 1.6U -- which is certainly good enough, *sigh*. anyway, I'm at the part now where I need to start digging out the pier. I decided I'm just going to cut in below the limestone and just use the rock to make a big pier (where I'm going to put a big hydrogen refinery so I can upgrade my trucks to hydrogen), then as I keep going, I'm going to inevitably run into slag mountain up there -- which by then I'll hopefully have the slag for SW contract -- undermining it and sorting the rock from the slag will save me having to dig it up and belt/truck it down the hill to the dock. instead, I can just have a bunch of excs digging limestone and slag for the dock.
the only problem with that plan is, I need to move production downstairs to the pier as well (maybe production goes where I thought the hydrogen refinery (see spreadsheet) would go). I realise now that pops, water (I can easily add more water). the other problem is, I think I'll probably have to go back to before I start the coal contract and move the kilns down to make sure I have shoreline for the pumps and dumps. oh well, two decades or so wasted, but now I know how to do it. I also may want to shave the ramp off a bit sooner too. I think it'll help a lot with some truck distances (more diagonals going from upstairs to down), and if I keep going, shave off some of the rock from on top of the coal mine too. gonna take a break and think about it.

### 2024-10-21 22:08 - try again tomorrow (0249-02-13)

I'm gonna try starting back again before building the coal contract. I redid the kilns so that I've got space on the coast for 4x pumps and dumps. I also thought ahead this time and gave myself 4 tiles to get pipes in and out of there (wish I had've done that originally; it's a total mess in there). I feel really good about the new setup. I also disovered that I can fit 4 desal units in front of the diesel generators and run a t3 pipe from the 4 unused pumps over where the basic desals were. that's 312 water up from 156 in the previous attempt. I feel like these improvements are good enough to go back to 0249, but not good enough to start over again from 0224. I'm also going to redo the diesel cracking location because I think with those basic desals out, I can get them in a bit tighter and leaving myself 4-6 tiles for pipes (especially once I delete the h-oil storage). it's so nice having that much unity to play with -- can't wait.
[23:52] OK, going to bed

### 2024-10-24 21:55 - good	on unity now (0249-02-13 -> 0253-03-16)

I went back and redid it by putting in the 4x desal units, and man does it work great. I've got too much food and water at this point, plus with the extra water and food, I'm making ~2.5U/mo, which makes the game now a whole lot easier. I'm gonna start building like crazy now that I have so much unity. all I have to say, is wow, I guess the pops like clean water :)

### 2024-10-28 10:58 - glass and scrubbing

yesterday and last night I made huge progess. I managed to get copper moved over and the old copper converted to an iron smelter, the coal contract going, such that I'm not even mining coal anymore (I came out slightly ahead after about 13x coal kilns) -- which means I can fill in the coal hole if I want (prolly with dirt). then now, the next obvious step is going to be to scrub that exhaust. then I've got to save about 2k cp3 to upgrade the smelters (I'll get all of the crushers pre-setup so it's mainly just pressing the upgrade button). finally, I think I'm gonna try extending the ramp all the way over to the iron mine, and then ramping down from main production down to that ramp (that way I can easily run a coal belt up to production). simultaneous to this, I think I need to dig heavily into the side of the mountain on the side of the pier so that limestone starts to fall down (either that or import limestone) -- to save some truck traffic. or goat belts :) goat belts seems like a good start for now. 

- move some ore sorters
- bricks
- quartz impport & glass production
- scrub bottom exhaust
- upgrade smelters
- add second crude imort ship

### 2024-10-29 13:49 - try again (0280-05-27)

I didn't play very seriously yesterday. I managed to get some of the bottom exhaust scrubbed, but I have to run a pipe from the refinery to the scrubber, and there's a lot of spaghetti in the way. I'm planning on trying to clean it up today (need to get to a stable state and save up a bunch of unity though). I'd also potentially like to run a coal boiler until I have the refinery setup to produce all the hydrogen that I need (also it's a good backup source of steam). anyway, what if I moved all of the steam over to where the coal import is, run the full water and power setup, and then the rest off of the coal import? minus the limestone cost, each round-trip coal import is ~950 coal positive. that also takes a lot of load off of crude import right now, which is going to become my next problem. I'm hoping that the two oil rigs will give me about ~100y of time to get the VP2 for crude contract going. I just did the maths and it works out pretty well, so I'm gonna work on scrubbing the pier exhaust and moving the boilers over there.

### 2024-10-31 19:45 - try again for realz (0280-05-27)

I tried a bunch of things not playing too seriously, and found a lot of things about the future out. first, I need to get my other oil rig online cause the one I've got is running out. I figure with both of them going at 4x (ie, 4x refinery modules) I have about ~150y, which should be fine. I don't think that one is too stressing -- just I need to get them online soon. pollution and health is an issue. as I add more and more pops, the air pollution starts to become a real issue. the easy solution to that one is to upgrade the captain's office and do +20 health boost (costing 2 unity though...). the other thing I noticed is that as I get more pops, I also get more unity too, averaging about 3.5U/m which is pretty good. getting the limestone contract going is going to be another thing that will be great, because though I'm goat-belting it down, the amount I'm consuming for the coal contract is considerable (~750 per trip). I need to convert that into the cp2 for limestone contract so that it's costing me iron and copper (trees are good) instead of limestone. with unlimited limestone like that I'm not going to feel so bad about starting the conversion to bricks over slabs (each cp2 costs 1 coal using bricks).
I still have some experimentation to do tonight, so we'll see if I get to actually really get going on the thing:
1. I tried expanding the ramp going up, but found out that if I ramp down to +23 on the top meanwhilst ramping up to +23, the trucks have a shorter travel. the trick is to figure out a way to do it without disrupting traffic though. I like the idea, and I want to start making the left side of that base all at +23 -- but obviously that'll take a while and cost a lot of diesel, so maybe it's better to pause the excs and just coast for a while. the obvious thing to do with all of that rock though is to keep expanding the pier in the front. also, having that setup also makes it possible to make another ramp up from the pier itself up to +23 a whole lot easier to belt coal and bricks up to top production (ie, I can put the bricks production on the pier where dirt and coal is plentiful only needing to send 12/27th of the material up top).
2. I tried cleaning up a lot of pipe spaghetti in front of the cargo depots I have (cause it's a pretty big mess). I settled on running 3 tiles bus. I haven't worked out all of the lanes yet because some places need different things. the whole thing requires a massive ammount of unity to do properly (I spent about 100 and only got half of it done). there are so many things that can be done better, that if I could start over, I'd do a lot of things differently (namely the NH3 and crude tanks positioning). I don't really want to start over from the beginning though, so what I'm thinking is just to clean it up bit by bit every time that I have a bunch of unity to spend and no major construction projects going, I figure I can work on it incrementally -- just place all of the new infrastructure with a 3 tile gap on either side. thing is, cleaning it up doesn't really do much for me other than taking less space and less mess. I may need to leave it for now focusing on expanding the pier -- then just demolish the whole thing once I can get the replacement infrastructure done.

### 2024-11-01 22:32 - very successful (0285-11-08)

I tried this strat of digging around and after a few hurdles (ie, returning to 3 refinery modules), everything was in a stable state and I let them dig on 10x (with no notifications) for 20y and they were able to dig out the whole ramp. while that was happening, I managed to upgrade the smelters (2k parts for 3 smelters, lol) and get the ore sorters moved. I did it just as a test, cause the next time I play (maybe tonight?) I'm gonna do the same thing, but this time I'm gonna put the dig areas (and use less excs) so that the excs don't keep going from the bottom to the top as they make their way around the coal hole (I think it's a bug -- as the exc shouldn't prioritise dig tiles that are so far away). anyway, I also found out that it's possible to divide the excs into 3 groups, one group digging from the bottom up to the middle, the other from the middle up, and the last from the top down to the middle. the other change I want to make is to use the cp3 to get quartz imported, glass made and then the vp2 for crude setup going (that'll give me a huge unity/pops boost not nneding the oil rigs anymore). also, I'll need tons of cp3 to pay for the massive coal/rock belts up to the top there.
the other thing I decided to start doing (cause I'm kinda already doing it) is to have each save name as a name for a project, and then maybe start all of the saves that are bugfizes, just title them as "fixme" or "improve" when they're not necessarily part of any project.
