clogs/Ministry of Preparation.md, before:

# captain's log - ministry of preparation (MOP)

### 2024-06-03 09:53 - the polution problem

I decided to start working on this one again (I took a few month break), but I want to see how I do by adding in the extra difficulty of writing about what I'm doing and *some* (cause it's impossible to express all) of my thoughts. it's been quite a bit, so I'm just gonna kinda go from memory. actually, I have a TODO list I left for myself... I remember I was trying to make the pivot into fertilizer, at the same time as making the water pipes next to the farms better and also moving the bakery.

- add another limestone digger (or make bigger limestone storage and have the exc work part-time)
- rearrange slag booster belt (don't remember what was wrong about it)
- priority diesel generators (to ensure power doesn't fail)
- build 2 chem plants and preferrably 2-3 mixers (one for slag and other for fertilizer)
- set rubber to use sufur
- diesel pipe on top in front - fertilizer in back
- turn off import/export for sulfur/slabs bucket
- run diesel and fertilizer/water pipe in front of the shipyard.

in addition to those things, I remember that I'm thinking my best route is to try and get a few extra tech labs (up to 6), and just try to get to wastewater treatment and exhaust scrubbing. air pollution is the next biggest threat. I have enough crude for 200-300y. it seems like food is also gonna be OK as well, because with fertilizer I'll just have so much more food that I can afford the extra workers.
I also think that I want to research glass smelting and get a quartz contract before I upgrade to big trucks. I'll probably keep the setup that I have now for a while because I can easily expand it with only 2x adv diesel -- though that'll likely get expanded because I have to convert all my power over to diesel, because all of that coal has to be for smelting until I get CO2 -> graphite (at which time I'll still likely run diesel until I can get to hydrogen).
	there's this thing that I sorta have against using uranium for some reason. the base that I see in the future has lots of pumps and dumps to turn LPS into clean water -- then combine that with hydrogen to get power -- and more clean water. also, it seems that I won't be able to afford even the slighest amount of radiation because of how much it (and other types of pollution) affects health. it's got to be hydrogen all of the way.

### 2024-06-03 13:31 - start over lol
- upgrade sw water pipe + put balancer
- run diesel and fertilizer/water pipe in front of the shipyard.
- fixup farm pipes
- build 2 chem plants and preferrably 2-3 mixers (one for slag and other for fertilizer)
- move bakery

### 2024-06-04 10:51 - start over one more time (0159-02-17)

so, playing coi while stoned is a most difficult task. I realise I need to just start over. so I'm starting over from 0159-02-17 -- we'll see how it goes. gonna try and remember some of the todo items. also, btw, it's a LOT easier to type qwerty, as well... that took me so long to type yesterday...

### 2024-06-05 11:18 - this time for reals (0160-06-02)

- ~~coal belt over to desals (save trucks driving distance, and I can use the space in front of desals for something else)~~
- ~~turn on gw pumps to full and use that water preferentially to the desal (save coal)~~
- ~~delete two of the diesel generators and put in a bucket for light oil (so I know when to turn on and off the hp turbines to expend the excess steam)~~
- run water pipes down the middle so that they aren't going on top of copper mountain
- ~~put in sulfur bucket and mixer to make acid up top~~
- build the other two science labs and just coast for a while, while research is getting done

this is kinda a pivotal moment, because on one side, I want to boost science and coast for a while, but I don't think that I can, actually. I'm probably going to have to come back and do the techs that I missed a little bit later (it only costs a little steel and some wood), because I really need: wastewater treatment, exhaust scrubbing, and electrolysis (to split the excess amonia). we'll see. I'll try both probably

### 2024-06-06 15:42 - I think I got this (0166-04-04)

I really feel good about my progress yesterday (it really helps not being stoned). I managed to get the 6th farm built, and get fertilizer into them. I also got to stable trucks for a bit, but it went away pretty quickly. though it says "extremely busy", stuff is getting delivered pretty fast even with P14 constructions. it seems that the "extremely busy" is counting all of the dump jobs of rock in the shipyard and ore sorters -- which is quite a few: I had 5.7k rock 10ya, and now only 2.1k.
- research belts mk2 (so that I can have more than 2.5 AS3 creating CP1 at a time, reducing my slag dumping, and also more slabs for paving)
- add limestone, iron, and coal diggers 
- get T3 going, and research:
	- wastewater treatment (water pollution is -9) 
	- exhaust filtration (air pollution is -13)
	- housing 3 (need more pops for more stuff; food isn't an issue anymore)
- run water pipes down the middle so that they aren't going on top of copper mountain, and build an ore sorter for copper and iron (so trucks don't have to drive so far)
- move some of the sw storages over to heavy oil
- move the bakery (to put in 2 more housing modules)

Commit message:

got some of it done

clogs/Ministry of Preparation.md, after:

# captain's log - ministry of preparation (MOP)

### 2024-06-03 09:53 - the polution problem

I decided to start working on this one again (I took a few month break), but I want to see how I do by adding in the extra difficulty of writing about what I'm doing and *some* (cause it's impossible to express all) of my thoughts. it's been quite a bit, so I'm just gonna kinda go from memory. actually, I have a TODO list I left for myself... I remember I was trying to make the pivot into fertilizer, at the same time as making the water pipes next to the farms better and also moving the bakery.

- add another limestone digger (or make bigger limestone storage and have the exc work part-time)
- rearrange slag booster belt (don't remember what was wrong about it)
- priority diesel generators (to ensure power doesn't fail)
- build 2 chem plants and preferrably 2-3 mixers (one for slag and other for fertilizer)
- set rubber to use sufur
- diesel pipe on top in front - fertilizer in back
- turn off import/export for sulfur/slabs bucket
- run diesel and fertilizer/water pipe in front of the shipyard.

in addition to those things, I remember that I'm thinking my best route is to try and get a few extra tech labs (up to 6), and just try to get to wastewater treatment and exhaust scrubbing. air pollution is the next biggest threat. I have enough crude for 200-300y. it seems like food is also gonna be OK as well, because with fertilizer I'll just have so much more food that I can afford the extra workers.
I also think that I want to research glass smelting and get a quartz contract before I upgrade to big trucks. I'll probably keep the setup that I have now for a while because I can easily expand it with only 2x adv diesel -- though that'll likely get expanded because I have to convert all my power over to diesel, because all of that coal has to be for smelting until I get CO2 -> graphite (at which time I'll still likely run diesel until I can get to hydrogen).
	there's this thing that I sorta have against using uranium for some reason. the base that I see in the future has lots of pumps and dumps to turn LPS into clean water -- then combine that with hydrogen to get power -- and more clean water. also, it seems that I won't be able to afford even the slighest amount of radiation because of how much it (and other types of pollution) affects health. it's got to be hydrogen all of the way.

### 2024-06-03 13:31 - start over lol
- upgrade sw water pipe + put balancer
- run diesel and fertilizer/water pipe in front of the shipyard.
- fixup farm pipes
- build 2 chem plants and preferrably 2-3 mixers (one for slag and other for fertilizer)
- move bakery

### 2024-06-04 10:51 - start over one more time (0159-02-17)

so, playing coi while stoned is a most difficult task. I realise I need to just start over. so I'm starting over from 0159-02-17 -- we'll see how it goes. gonna try and remember some of the todo items. also, btw, it's a LOT easier to type qwerty, as well... that took me so long to type yesterday...

### 2024-06-05 11:18 - this time for reals (0160-06-02)

- ~~coal belt over to desals (save trucks driving distance, and I can use the space in front of desals for something else)~~
- ~~turn on gw pumps to full and use that water preferentially to the desal (save coal)~~
- ~~delete two of the diesel generators and put in a bucket for light oil (so I know when to turn on and off the hp turbines to expend the excess steam)~~
- run water pipes down the middle so that they aren't going on top of copper mountain
- ~~put in sulfur bucket and mixer to make acid up top~~
- build the other two science labs and just coast for a while, while research is getting done

this is kinda a pivotal moment, because on one side, I want to boost science and coast for a while, but I don't think that I can, actually. I'm probably going to have to come back and do the techs that I missed a little bit later (it only costs a little steel and some wood), because I really need: wastewater treatment, exhaust scrubbing, and electrolysis (to split the excess amonia). we'll see. I'll try both probably

### 2024-06-06 15:42 - I think I got this (0166-04-04)

I really feel good about my progress yesterday (it really helps not being stoned). I managed to get the 6th farm built, and get fertilizer into them. I also got to stable trucks for a bit, but it went away pretty quickly. though it says "extremely busy", stuff is getting delivered pretty fast even with P14 constructions. it seems that the "extremely busy" is counting all of the dump jobs of rock in the shipyard and ore sorters -- which is quite a few: I had 5.7k rock 10ya, and now only 2.1k.
- research belts mk2 (so that I can have more than 2.5 AS3 creating CP1 at a time, reducing my slag dumping, and also more slabs for paving)
- ~~add limestone, iron, and coal diggers~~
- get T3 going, and research:
	- wastewater treatment (water pollution is -9) 
	- exhaust filtration (air pollution is -13)
	- housing 3 (need more pops for more stuff; food isn't an issue anymore)
- run water pipes down the middle so that they aren't going on top of copper mountain, and build an ore sorter for copper and iron (so trucks don't have to drive so far)
- ~~move some of the sw storages over to heavy oil~~
- ~~move the bakery (to put in 2 more housing modules)~~

#### 2024-06-06 23:19 - got some of it done

I didn't make it to T3 at all, and it seems that I'll probably just complete all of the research before moving to T3, because I need to kill a bunch of pirates. I still haven't found the next oil rig yet, and I think I may cheat to find it by remembering where it is and then reloading the game. so far I've found a sulfur mine and a coal mine... lol. that will only help me out a little bit though, because when I closed the game just now (0180-06-23), I had enough crude, and 850 pops, so everything is pretty good, just I was making stupid mistakes like forgetting to put the limestone digger back on after the bucket emptied... so, time to sleep :)
