# Pirate Bay - Captain's Log

### 2024-10-22 00:21 - try this one

a long time ago I got a map from a guy on discord called "破碎高原" -- which, according to google translates into "broken/fragcmented plateau". I *really like* the map, but it's difficult AF -- so I tried it the other day to take a break from [Ministry of Preparation](<Ministry of Preparation.md>) (MOP). I fired up the new map screen and pressed random (or it was the first one -- don't remember), and the name "Pirate Bay" came right up, so I decided to keep it (I may start over with a different title). I put it on captain difficulty to try and get a hang of the map, but as I said, it's really difficult -- so it's gonna take some planning. the difficulty is all in the beginning though because of things like the resources being under dirt, and not a lot of flat terrain, and few trees. I'm gonna try and see if I can't conquer it because honestly I need a break sometimes from MOP -- and also I want to show off some of the novel procedures that I came up with playing MOP (it's a really good tutorial in how to play efficiently).
so far, my first 3 tries have been very unserious, but I'm thinking that I want to start to get serious about this map. tonight is a good time to start too because I've drank too much coffee, and I'm not sleeping so easily. the thing is, I'm not mentally in the same space as I was when I started MOP (I'm much more spendthrift and less efficient), so I'm kinda doubting my ability to do this map, honestly. I'm also going to try it out on captain for the first run, then once I get the hang of it, I'll switch to neptune difficulty
[02:38] turns out on captain difficulty it's not that difficult. in fact, it seems pretty easy. there are some definite annoyances, like iron being almost everywhere, but it's totally beatable on neptune. I'm not sure if I want to give it a go. it's actually going to be easier than armageddon because of how close the diesel is (no insane goat pipe necessary) -- which is nice, allowing me to focus on some of the other difficult aspects of neptune -- but honestly, it seems not that hard. I think I'm gonna go on discord and talk to the guy. send him a save on neptune difficulty so he can see how it's going. I may have some map suggestions as well, but the way coi works, it's sorta necessary to have all of the things in the start. if he were to get rid of the beach, forcing the use of crushers to turn quartz into sand, it might increase difficulty. I thought it would be worse, but having few flat areas isn't actually as hard as I thought -- but having to dig down into the crater for quartz/sand makes things more difficult. hrmmm well, I'm gonna familiarise myself with the map more and then talk to him. other than that, I like the map a lot. it's got good design to it and it's visually appealing as well.
